hi my name is Catherine Bruner and today
I'm going to show you how to make
all-natural facial toner so we're going
to use half a cup of rose water making
sure that it's actual rose water and not
rose scented water it's been credibly
soothing for the skin it's antimicrobial
so it's really good for acne prone skin
and it's a gentle cleanser then we'll
use alcohol-free witch hazel which is a
wonderful astringent so it's great for
reducing any inflammation or puffiness
in the face takes away redness and it
helps to balance out our skin tone so
quarter cup of that and then we're gonna
use one tablespoon of aloe vera juice
gel which is wonderfully soothing for
the skin it's also a gentle moisturizer
so it's really good to add during colder
months or even for sunburns it helps to
heal sunburns really quickly and then
vegetable glycerin which is a humectant
so a humectant means it actually
attracts moisture to this skin we're
gonna use a quarter of a teaspoon of the
vegetable glycerin and it'll help to
keep the outer layer of our skin really
supple and smooth especially in winter
months when it's a bit colder and then
last we'll use some lavender essential
oil so the lavender essential oil is
wonderfully healing for the skin helps
to repair the skin and also
antimicrobial so we'll give that a stir
all of these ingredients should be found
at your health food store if not you can
find them online and the wonderful thing
about making your own facial toner is
that there's no need for preservatives
in it so you don't have any of those
chemicals and it's so much cheaper when
you make your own so a funnel works
really well for this and we'll want to
use a glass bottle or a bpa-free plastic
bottle preferably dark and it will store
in your bathroom for six months longer
if you store it in the fridge so after
you've washed your face you can spritz
it on your face and leave it on to
moisturize your face or you can actually
just wipe it off with a cotton
pad if you want to remove some more
debris from the skin and there you have
it
all-natural facial toner that'll leave
you with glowing vibrant skin